The Getting Started section (#138)
AlexsLemonade/refinebio-examples: 01-getting-started/getting-started.Rmd

- [How to get the data](#how-to-get-the-data)
- [How to use R Markdowns](#how-to-use-r-markdowns)
- [An important note about file paths and Rmds](#an-important-note-about-file-paths-and-rmds)
    - [Resources for learning R](#resources-for-learning-r)
    - [More resources from the CCDL](#more-resources-from-the-ccdl)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## About refine.bio 

[refinebio](https://www.refine.bio/about) is a collection of ready-to-use pre-processed normalized data! 
Publicly available gene expression data is [uniformly processed](http://docs.refine.bio/en/latest/main_text.html#processing-information) and made available for easy download. 
This tutorial has follow-along examples for use with refinebio downloads. 

## About how this tutorial book is structured 

This tutorial contains follow-along analysis examples for refinebio gene expression data.
The analysis examples are organized by technology: ["microarray"](../02-microarray/intro-to-microarray.nb.html) or ["RNA-seq"](../03-rna-seq/intro-to-rna-seq.nb.html), in addition to an ["Advanced Topics"](../04-advanced-topics/intro-to-advanced-topics.nb.html) section. 

> Each analysis is self-contained and provides information with how to obtain the dataset used in the example from refinebio. 

Reviewer: It may also be useful to adapt the [section of the README.md file](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/refinebio-examples/blob/c47ce0b04c5049c879fee0ad2fe763bec76ad38c/README.md#how-to-use-this-repository) which outlines the contents of each module here. The section I am referring to can also be found below:

```
Each directory is a module of example workflow(s) and contains:

A README that introduces you to the concepts, requirements, and workflows for that module.
Example dataset(s) in the data folder
A results and/or plots folder(s) that contains the output of the analyses.
An R Notebook which consists of:
An R markdown (Rmd) file(s) that you can use in RStudio to run the analysis
An nb.html file that is the resulting output of the Rmd file rendered as an HTML file.
```

Author: Ah. Good idea. I like it.

Author: I'm not exactly sure what the READMEs will be during this revamping. I should file a discussion issue about this, because I've just realized I've only been thinking about this in my head and have not written it down.

We encourage you to download the [`.Rmd`](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com) and follow the "getting started" section in the example.

## What you need to install to run the examples 

Our tutorial module requires you to install the following software to be able to run the examples. 

> These requirements can be installed by following the instructions at these links.

Reviewer: Which links are you referring to here?

Author: The `Required Software` section ones. Will be more clear.

We recommend installing `devtools` from CRAN (e.g. running `install.packages("devtools")` in R). 

> 

Reviewer: You can also probably add the [general requirements listed in the README](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/refinebio-examples/blob/c47ce0b04c5049c879fee0ad2fe763bec76ad38c/README.md#general-requirements-for-the-example-workflows) here as well.

Author: This is what this section is borrowed from. That same list is right below this part.

Reviewer: Ahhh gotcha, sorry about that! Not sure why I completely missed that earlier but this conversation was resolved before it started 👍

  html_notebook: 
    toc: true
    toc_float: true
---

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [About refine.bio](#about-refinebio)
- [About how this tutorial book is structured](#about-how-this-tutorial-book-is-structured)
- [What you need to install to run the examples](#what-you-need-to-install-to-run-the-examples)
- [How to get the data](#how-to-get-the-data)
- [How to use R Markdowns](#how-to-use-r-markdowns)
- [An important note about file paths and Rmds](#an-important-note-about-file-paths-and-rmds)
    - [Resources for learning R](#resources-for-learning-r)
    - [More resources from the CCDL](#more-resources-from-the-ccdl)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

> ## About refine.bio 

Author: Yes. I'll put a TODO there for now.

> ## About refine.bio 

Reviewer 2: > These might need to be online links though instead of relative links?

What information do you need to answer this question? To get further along with Jekyll?

> ## About refine.bio 

Author: Probably some Jekyll set up things, but also some insight/guesses on how our users are going to be looking at this? Probably almost always online or downloaded the whole repo?

> ## About refine.bio 

Reviewer 2: Online links seem safer for now. I think we will need to figure out how easy or hard it is to have individual modules on S3 (#100).

Publicly available gene expression data is [uniformly processed](http://docs.refine.bio/en/latest/main_text.html#processing-information) and made available for easy download. 
This tutorial has follow-along examples for use with refinebio downloads. 

## About how this tutorial book is structured 

This tutorial contains follow-along analysis examples for refinebio gene expression data.
The analysis examples are organized by technology: ["microarray"](../02-microarray/intro-to-microarray.nb.html) or ["RNA-seq"](../03-rna-seq/intro-to-rna-seq.nb.html), in addition to an ["Advanced Topics"](../04-advanced-topics/intro-to-advanced-topics.nb.html) section. 
Each analysis is self-contained and provides information with how to obtain the dataset used in the example from refinebio. 
We encourage you to download the [`.Rmd`](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com) and follow the "getting started" section in the example before diving into our analysis examples.

**Each analysis contains:**   
- A README that introduces you to the analyses, concepts, requirements, and workflows for that module.
- An R Notebook which consists of:

>      - An R markdown (Rmd) file(s) that you can use in RStudio to run the analysis and contains it's own "getting started" section which describes how to download the example dataset from refinebio. 

Author: I don't think there is a distinction. We might as well make it consistent.

    - An nb.html file that is the resulting output of the Rmd file rendered as an HTML file.

> 

Author: Maybe should add brief outline about what each getting started for each analysis contains. e.g. `Further learning resources about this analysis` and the rest of the sections. What information should a user expect to find for each analysis?

## What you need to install to run the examples 

> 

Author: Need to potentially add a section about if things don't install properly.

Each example analysis has additional required packages but will check if they are installed and will install them if they are not.
Depending on your particular configuration, sometimes problems occur (Here's a [list of the most common R package installation errors and what they mean](http://mazamascience.com/WorkingWithData/?p=1185).). 
Each example module directory will include further instructions for how to follow along with the examples.

## How to get the data

Each analysis will include a link to the example dataset's page on [refine.bio](https://www.refine.bio/) as well as step-by-step instructions of how to set up your data and folders for your analysis. 
As you become more comfortable with the analysis, we encourage you to switch out this example dataset for another that may better suit your interests and scientific questions. 
We've placed comments where the code will absolutely need to be changed for a different dataset, but you may find other parts of the analysis you will want to alter to fit your needs.
Each analysis also includes links to resources and documentation that we hope helps you make useful alterations to the analysis. 

> You will likely encounter errors and bugs as you make changes; don't let this discourage you, it is all a part of the process.

Reviewer 3: ❤️

See this [debugging guide](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/training-modules/blob/master/intro-to-R-tidyverse/00b-debugging_resources.md) for our list of the most common R errors and how you might be able to address them. 

## How to use R Markdowns

We use [R Markdown](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/) throughout this tutorial.
R Markdown documents are helpful for scientific code by allowing you to keep detailed notes, code, and output in one place.

When you execute code within the notebook, the results appear beneath the code. 
Try executing this chunk by clicking the *Run* button within the chunk or by 
placing your cursor inside it and pressing *Cmd+Shift+Enter*. 

```{r print}
print("The output from the code in this chunk will print below!")
```

> R Markdown documents also have the added benefit of having HTML file output that is styled and easy to read.

Author: Maybe "rendered" or "formatted" are more what I mean?

Saving one of our R Markdowns (the files that end in `.Rmd`) on your computer will create an HTML file containing the code and output to be saved alongside it (will end in `.nb.html`.

## An important note about file paths and Rmds

> 

Author: Need more introductory words about what a "file path" is.

A `current directory` refers to where R will look for files or otherwise operate. 
Directories are the folders of files on your computer; a file path is the series of folders leading to the file you are referring to.
Rmarkdown documents have the `current directory` always set as wherever the `.Rmd` file itself is saved. 
This means all file paths specified in the Rmd must be specified `relative` to the location of the Rmd. 

For more practice with setting file paths in `.Rmd` files see these:  
- [This handy course chapter from Baumer and Crouser](https://beanumber.github.io/sds192/lab-import.html#paths)  
- [The CCDL's intro to R course material](https://alexslemonade.github.io/training-modules/intro-to-R-tidyverse/01-intro_to_base_R.nb.html)  

## Resources for learning R

> 

Author: Need more words here about getting started in R

This tutorial has follow-along examples for use with refine.bio downloads. 

## About how this tutorial book is structured 

This tutorial contains follow-along analysis examples for refinebio gene expression data.
The analysis examples are organized by technology: ["microarray"](https://alexslemonade.github.io/refinebio-examples/02-microarray/intro-to-microarray.nb.html) or ["RNA-seq"](https://alexslemonade.github.io/refinebio-examples/03-rna-seq/intro-to-rna-seq.nb.html), in addition to an ["Advanced Topics"](https://alexslemonade.github.io/refinebio-examples/04-advanced-topics/intro-to-advanced-topics.nb.html) section. 
Each analysis is self-contained and provides information with how to obtain the dataset used in the example from refine.bio. 
We encourage you to download the [`.Rmd`](http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com) and follow the "getting started" section in the example before diving into our analysis examples.

**Each analysis contains:**   
- A README that introduces you to the analyses, concepts, requirements, and workflows for that module.
- An R Notebook which consists of:

>      - An R markdown (`.Rmd`) file(s) that you can use in RStudio to run the analysis and contains it's own "getting started" section which describes how to download the example dataset from refinebio. 

Author: ```suggestion
     - An R markdown (`.Rmd`) file(s) that you can use in RStudio to run the analysis and contains it's own "getting started" section which describes how to download the example dataset from refine.bio. 
```
